How do I verify that my code is working? 
I have a functionally correct solution by creating a testable list from the requirements and then testing the "happy path" of each requirement along with the edge case (null values, max length of the field, bad input, duplicate entry, etc.) for each test. I run these tests on every single update to the code to prevent changing one piece of code without being aware of how it affects other parts of the application. For ensuring the security of my application, I consider all input as potentially malicious and validate it before using it anywhere in my application. In addition, I control where data is retrieved and restrict the level of access to the least amount required to complete the task. Also, I never store secret information directly within the code. I am doing simple static checks and reviewing the code. I am also looking for common mistakes such as revealing sensitive information, poor session management, or error management that discloses too much information.

How do I take into account user requirements and create an application?
I translate the words of the user into testable and clear requirements. These include: what the system must do; what the system cannot do; and any constraints (for example, maximum length of a field, unique ID's, timing restrictions, performance expectations). When I encounter ambiguity, I try to reduce it to concrete examples. Afterward, I create the simplest possible implementation that satisfies the primary need of the user, I receive user feedback early in development, and I continue to add to the functionality until I feel that the application meets the users' needs. To summarize: Listen → Convert Requirements to Testable Requirements → Build → Validate Through Tests and User Feedback → Refine.

How do I develop software?
I begin to develop software by dividing the problem into smaller components with well-defined responsibility. Next, I define the data model and the rules governing it. I prefer to begin by developing based upon requirements first. This means I create a set of written constraints, I define the API (the methods available to the client, as well as the method input/output parameters), and I develop the implementation in a manner that maintains simplicity, readability, and ease of testing. I also attempt to design for maintainability early-on so that the implementation will remain manageable when future changes are made. Lastly, I validate my design by asking myself: "Will I be able to test this?" If you find yourself struggling to test your design, it likely indicates a flaw in the design that should be addressed.
